Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan
Non-Emergent Patient Transportation Services
John D. Dingell VAMC
1. PURPOSE
This Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) is a Government developed and applied document used to
make sure that systematic quality assurance methods are used in the administration of the Performance Based
Acquisition (PBA) standards included in this contract. The intent is to ensure that the Contractor performs in
accordance with performance metrics set forth in the contract documents, that the Government receives the
quality of services called for in the contract and that the Government only pays for the acceptable level of
services received.
2. SCOPE
To fully understand the roles and the responsibilities of the parties, it is important to first define the distinction
in terminology between the Quality Control Plan and the Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan. The Contractor,
and not the Government, is responsible for management and quality control actions necessary to meet the
quality standards set forth in the contract. The Contractor develops and submits his/her Quality Control Plan
(QCP) for Government approval in compliance with his contract deliverables. Once accepted, the Contractor
then uses the QCP to guide and to rigorously document the implementation of the required management and
quality control actions to achieve the specified results. The QASP on the other hand, is put in place to provide
Government surveillance oversight of the Contractor’s quality control efforts to assure that they are timely,
effective and are delivering the results specified in the contract. The QASP is not a part of the contract, nor is it
intended to duplicate the Contractor’s QCP. The Government may provide the Contractor an information copy
of the QASP as an Attachment to the solicitation to support the Contractor’s efforts in developing a QCP that
will interrelate with the Government’s QASP.
3. GOVERNMENT RESOURCES/RESPONSIBILITIES
The following personnel shall oversee and coordinate surveillance activities.
a. CONTRACTING OFFICER: The Contracting Officer (C.O.), ensures performance of all necessary actions
for effective contracting, ensures compliance with the terms of the contract, and safeguards the interests of the
United States in the contractual relationship. It is the Contracting Officer that assures the Contractor receives
impartial, fair, and equitable treatment under the contract. The Contracting Officer is ultimately responsible for
the final determination of the adequacy of the Contractor’s performance.
Assigned CO: Christopher D. Gundy
Organization or Agency: Department of Veterans Affairs, NCO10
b. Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) - The COR provides detailed technical oversight of the
Contractor’s performance and reports his or her findings to the C.O. in a timely, complete and impartial fashion.
The COR is not empowered to make any contractual commitments or to authorize any contractual changes on
the Government’s behalf. Any changes that the Contractor deems may affect contract, price, terms, or
conditions shall be referred to the Contracting Officer for action.
Assigned COR: Joel Matanzas
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4. CONTRACTOR REPRESENTATIVES
a. Program Manager:
b. Other Contractor Personnel - To be completed at award.
5. METHODS OF QA SURVEILLANCE
The below listed methods of surveillance shall be used in the administration of the QASP. In addition to
specific instructions that may be mentioned, the appropriate and standardized form that is to be used for
documentation of QA surveillance is the Surveillance Activity Checklist, included as Attachment A.
Customer Feedback - Customer feedback may be obtained either from the results of formal customer
satisfaction surveys or from random customer complaints. Customer complaints, to be considered valid, must
set forth clearly and in writing the detailed nature of the complaint, must be signed and forwarded to the COR.
The COR shall maintain a summary log of all formally received customer complaints as well as a copy of each
complaint in a documentation file. The COR shall also keep the tabulated results of all customer satisfaction
surveys on file and shall enter the summary results into the Surveillance Activity Checklist. (Copies of all
records shall be submitted to the CO upon receipt for placement in the official contract file, and when
necessary, determination of actions.)
100% Inspection - The COR shall monitor each patient delivery and enter performance results into the
Surveillance Activity Checklist.
Periodic Inspection - Periodic inspections shall be conducted when specified in the contract/PWS. For the
potential tasks that have been identified so far and included in this QASP, the COR performs the periodic
inspection on a monthly basis.
Random Monitoring - Random monitoring shall be conducted if and when specified in the contract. For the
potential tasks that have been identified so far and included in this QASP, the random monitoring shall be
performed by the COR.
5. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
The Performance Requirements Summary in the Performance Work Statement (PWS) includes performance
standards. The Government shall use these standards to determine contractor performance and shall
compare contractor performance to the Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) and determine incentives.
Standard
Performance
Threshold
Performance Objective -Task
SS PWS Para
Provide on- time
transportation service to
SS 1 Para.6
appointments
Shall ensure all passengers arrive at
their designated appointment
location 15 to 30 minutes prior to
the appointment time.
95%
Compliance
Provide on- time
SS 2 Para. 7
transportation service -
return trips
Passenger picked up within 30
minutes of call from the VTS/AOD.
97%
Method of
Surveillance
100%
Surveillance
of each
patient pick-
up.
Customer
Feedback
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Standard
Performance
SS
Performance Objective -Task
PWS Para
Threshold
Method of
Surveillance
Incident Reporting
The Contractor shall submit all
injury reports within 24 hours of
SS 3 Para. 16
incident to the VTS/COR and AOD
97%
Random
Compliance
Monitoring
for inclusion into the passenger's
administrative chart.
The Contractor shall submit invoices
Invoice Reports 100%
95%
SS4 Para. 21
with required information
Compliance
contained in the PWS.
Surveillance
Vehicle Requirements
accomplish all services under
this contract.
SS5 Para. 2
Contractor to maintain fleet of
vehicles in accordance with
paragraph 2 of the PWS to
include providing reports
quarterly and upon request of
the COR or CO.
95%
Periodic
Compliance
Inspection
Drivers shall complete
SS6 Para. 4
training requirements
outlined in this PWS
Contractor to ensure drivers meet
Periodic
training requirements of paragraph
4
95%
Inspection
6. INCENTIVES
The Government shall consider the Contractor’s performance when making a determination to issue annual task
orders.
7. DOCUMENTING PERFORMANCE
Acceptable Performance - The Government shall document acceptable performance accordingly. Any report
may become a part of the supporting documentation for any contractual action.
Unacceptable Performance - When unacceptable performance occurs, the COR shall inform the CO. This will
always be in writing although when circumstances necessitate immediate verbal communication, that
communication will be followed up in writing. The COR shall document the discussion and place it in the COR
file.
When the CO determines formal written communication is required, the COR shall prepare a Contract
Discrepancy Report (CDR), and present it to the Contractor's program manager.
The Contractor shall acknowledge receipt of the CDR in writing to the CO. The CDR will state how long after
receipt the Contractor has to take corrective action. The CDR will also specify if the Contractor is required to
prepare a corrective action plan to document how the Contractor shall correct the unacceptable performance and
avoid a recurrence. The CO shall review the Contractor's corrective action plan to determine acceptability.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Any CDRs may become a part of the supporting documentation for any contractual action deemed necessary by
the CO.
8. FREQUENCY OF MEASUREMENT
Frequency of Measurement - During contract/order performance, the COR will periodically analyze whether
the negotiated frequency of surveillance is appropriate for the work being performed, and at a minimum shall be
quarterly.
Frequency of Performance Assessment Meetings - The COR shall meet with the Contractor quarterly to
assess performance and shall provide a written assessment to the CO.
Evaluation Ratings for Assessment
EVALUATION RATINGS
DEFINITIONS Rating
Exceptional
Very Good
Satisfactory
Definition Notes
Performance meets contractual
requirements and exceeds many to the
Government’s benefit. The
contractual performance of the
element or sub-element being
evaluated was accomplished with few
minor problems for which corrective
actions taken by the contractor were
highly effective.
Performance meets contractual
requirements and exceeds some to the
Government’s benefit. The
contractual performance of the
element or sub-element being
evaluated was accomplished with
some minor problems for which
corrective actions taken by the
contractor were effective.
Performance meets contractual
requirements. The contractual
performance of the element or sub-
element contains some minor
problems for which corrective actions
taken by the contractor appear or
were satisfactory.
To justify an Exceptional rating,
identify multiple significant events
and state how they were of benefit to
the Government. A singular benefit,
however, could be of such magnitude
that it alone constitutes an
Exceptional rating. Also, there should
have been NO significant weaknesses
identified.
To justify a Very Good rating,
identify a significant event and state
how it was a benefit to the
Government. There should have been
no significant weaknesses identified.
Marginal
Performance does not meet some
contractual requirements. The
contractual performance of the
element or sub-element being
evaluated reflects a serious problem
for which the contractor has not yet
identified corrective actions. The
contractor’s proposed actions appear
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
To justify a Satisfactory rating, there
should have been only minor
problems, or major problems the
contractor recovered from without
impact to the contract/order. There
should have been NO significant
weaknesses identified. A fundamental
principle of assigning ratings is that
contractors will not be evaluated with
a rating lower than Satisfactory solely
for not performing beyond the
requirements of the contract/order.
To justify Marginal performance,
identify a significant event in each
category that the contractor had
trouble overcoming and state how it
impacted the Government. A
Marginal rating should be supported
by referencing the management tool
that notified the contractor of the
contractual deficiency (e.g.,
only marginally effective or were not
fully implemented.
management, quality, safety, or
environmental deficiency report or
letter).
Unsatisfactory
Performance does not meet most
contractual requirements and
recovery is not likely in a timely
manner. The contractual performance
of the element or sub-element
contains a serious problem(s) for
which the contractor’s corrective
actions appear or were ineffective.
To justify an Unsatisfactory rating,
identify multiple significant events in
each category that the contractor had
trouble overcoming and state how it
impacted the Government. A singular
problem, however, could be of such
serious magnitude that it alone
constitutes an unsatisfactory rating.
An Unsatisfactory rating should be
supported by referencing the
management tools used to notify the
contractor of the contractual
deficiencies (e.g., management,
quality, safety, or environmental
deficiency reports, or letters).
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERFORMANCE BASED SERVICE ASSESSMENT
CONTRACTOR:
_______________
GOVERNMENT REQUIRING ACTIVITY:
CONTRACT/ORDER NUMBER/ TITLE:
PERFORMANCE PERIOD COVERED:
NAME AND TITLE OF COR:
DATE:
EVALUATION RATINGS FOR ASSESSMENT
EXCEPTIONAL
VERY GOOD
SATISFACTORY
MARGINAL
UNSATISFACTORY
All value ratings must be supported, objective and explained in the Narrative Section for each
Performance Objective.
PERFORMANCE OBECTIVES:
a. TECHNICAL/QUALITY OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE: Rating: <Value>
How well does the contractor meet your Technical Requirement IAW the performance metrics in the PWS?
NARRATIVE: (enter narrative)
b. PROJECT MILESTONES AND SCHEDULE: Rating: <Value>
How well does the contractor meet the established schedule IAW the performance metrics in the PWS?
NARRATIVE: (enter narrative)
c. COST & STAFFING: Rating: <Value>
Are the staffing levels and expertise appropriate for accomplishing the mission IAW the performance metrics in
the PWS? '
~
Were the invoices current, accurate and complete?
NARRATIVE: (enter narrative in box)
d. MANAGEMENT: Rating: <Value>
How well did the contractor integrate/coordinate all activities needed to execute the contract IAW the
performance metrics in the PWS?
NARRATIVE: (enter narrative in box)
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
